# solo5-frt-rt1176

This package provides a variety of files required to build a MirageOS unikernel with Solo5 running on top of a Cortex(r)-M7 core of your NXP i.MX RT1176 processor.

## How to build your MirageOS unikernel

Follow instructions described in [BUILD.md](./BUILD.md).

## What is done during installation of this package

(in GNUMakefile)

1. Build a FreeRTOS library file `libfreertos_debug.a`
2. Build a LWIP library file `liblwip_debug.a`
3. Build a driver library file `libdriver_debug.a`
4. Build a board library file `libboard_debug.a`
5. Build a board specific solo5 frt library file `libsolo5_frt_debug.a`

(in install.sh)

5. Copy `Makefile.soc`   and `solo5_frt.lds` to `$HOME/.opam/$(opam var prefix)/solo5-frt-r51176-m7`
6. Copy `FreeRTOSConfig.h`, `platform_binding.h`, and `platform_tender.h` to `$HOME/.opam/$(opam var prefix)/solo5-frt-rt1176-m7/include`
7. Copy the library files above to `$HOME/.opam/$(opam var prefix)/solo5-frt-rt1176-m7/lib`

## Memory configuration

Currently, a unikernel ELF file generated by using this package utilizes only an SDRAM region (0x80002000 - 0x83FFFFFF). The first 0x2000 bytes of SDRAM (0x80000000 - 0x80001FFF) is reserved for SD card boot. You should not not this SDRAM region.

## Booting up from an SD card

A generated unikernel ELF file can be loaded directly from an SD card, then your MirageOS based application will run automatically on your target board.

Use [MCUXpresso Secure Provisioning Tool](https://www.nxp.jp/design/software/development-software/mcuxpresso-software-and-tools-/mcuxpresso-secure-provisioning-tool:MCUXPRESSO-SECURE-PROVISIONING) to create a bootable SD card from a generated unikernel ELF file.

**Note:** Do not forget to change the file name of a generated ELF file (such as "targetapp.frt") to "targetapp.elf" before using MCUXpresso Secure Provisioning Tool, because the tool cannot recognize the "frt" file extension.

## LICENSE

ISC lincence is applied as indicated in the LICENSE file unless noted in each file.

Exceptionally, one of other licneses are applied to some files.

### BSD-3-Clause license

- `solo5_frt.lds`
- `lwipopt.h`
- `platform_tender.h`
- `frt/platform_rt1176_tender.c`
- `rt1170_evk/board_solo5.c`

### MIT license

- `FreeRTOSConfig.h`
